# Deep-Learning-Fitness-Estimation-ECG
This project applies deep learning to estimate VO2max and other CRF metrics using resting ECG data from ~8,700 UK Biobank participants. By utilizing pre-trained PCLR embeddings and transfer learning, the model eliminates the need for costly and risky maximal exercise testing.

How I used the files:

1. extract_ukbb_labels.py
   input: INPUT_FILE_PATH = "/cluster/work/grlab/projects/projects2025-dataspectrum4cvd/ukbb/raw/Main/ukb679928.csv"
   output:
   explanation: Create .csv files with create create_fitness_params.py.
   
3. BP_mean.py
   Special case: blood pressure .csv files were creates with BP_mean.py as teh average of two measurements was calculated.
   
4. eid_age2_sex_bmi2.csv file was created with sex, age (from instace 2), BMI (from instance 2) from participants with a resting ECG data file from insatnce 2
5. PCLR embeddings were extracted and saved with create_pclr_emb.py
6. preprocessing_ep.py
   input:
   output:
   Preprocessing the raw ECG data form insatnce 2. Code modified from Elias Pinter

Model Replication:

6. Basic Model
7. Deep VO2 model

Training Models on UK Biobank data:

5. pclr_plus_different_models.py
   input:
   output: a) saves Full Models for all fitness parameters saved in /cluster/work/grlab/projects/tmp_imankowski/models
           b) prints evaluation metrics (r (95 %CI), R^2, MAE, MSE, RMSE)
   File creates a 'Full Model' (Input: Age, Sex, BMI, 320 ECG embeddings) with the Machine Learning techniques: Lasso, ElasicNet, XGBoost, MLP
   The Lasso Model was run and saved for all fitness metrics. It was saved under /cluster/work/grlab/projects/tmp_imankowski/models
   The other models (ElasicNet, XGBoost, MLP) were run and saved only for the VO2max
   The file also generated the evaluation metrics (r (95 %CI), R^2, MAE, MSE, RMSE)
   

6. basic_own_model.py creates a 'Basic Model' (Input: Age, Sex, BMI, 320 ECG embeddings) with the machine learning techniques: Lasso, ElasicNet, XGBoost, MLP
This file was used to generate the Basic Model for all machine learning techniques for the VO2max evaluation.

Table and Figure generation:

7. table_eval_fitness_samples.py
   input:
   output: a) saves Basic Model for all fitness metrics in /cluster/work/grlab/projects/tmp_imankowski/models 
           b) saves LaTeX code with tables for the results section of the written thesis (LATEX_TABLE_samplesize.txt)
   requirements: xgb_test environment
   For efficiency, the basic model was not run manually for every fitness parameter with basic_own_model.py.
   With the file table_eval_fitness_smaples.py the 'Basic Model' was run for  for every fitness parameter.
The Basic Models were saved under 
The file also used the saved 'Full Models' generated by pclr_plus_different_models.py that were saved in the models folder.
The output of table_eval_fitness_smaples.py was this the Basic Models and a LaTeX file with tables that summarises and compares the Basic Model and the Full Model.
Diastolic and systolic values are not handeled here and were added manally in overlead later.
Final formating adjustments were undertaken in overleaf.

9. Figures
10. Tableone for classic metrics such as age, sex, ethnic background. Instance Priority 2 -> average(1,3) -> 1 -> 0. Data Mixed from instances.
     Metrics and instance priority inspired from Arjuns Thesis.
11. tableone_addition_fitness.py
    Tableone for fitness metrics with trained models and matching instances
